La llamada está siendo grabada por motivos de calidad y, bueno, bienvenida. Este espacio es para conocer más sobre ti, también para darte información de la vacante, para darte información sobre Solvo.
Me presento de manera formal. Mi nombre es Laura Mejía. Hago parte del equipo de Talent Adquisition de Solvo.
Y, bueno, iniciemos. Me gustaría primero preguntarte qué conoces sobre Solvo. ¿De pronto habías trabajado con nosotros antes? ¿Habías estado en algún proceso de selección anterior?
No, nunca había escuchado de la empresa ni tampoco había estado en un proceso de selección y, la verdad, no sé mucho acerca de ustedes.
Listo, no te preocupes. Yo te doy entonces un poco de información. Ah, bueno, veo que te llamas Tatiana Lucía. ¿Qué nombre prefieres?
Tatiana.
Listo, perfecto. Hacerte. Bueno, entonces te cuento. Solvo es una PEO, es decir, una Professional Employer Organization.
Y nuestra misión o nuestro trabajo es conectar talento bilingüe con nuestros clientes en Estados Unidos y Canadá, en las diferentes industrias, en la industria BPO, en la industria comercial, legal, financiera, administrativa, etc.
Eso básicamente es Solvo.
¿Ok? Ahora me gustaría pasar a conocer un poco más sobre ti. Esta parte sería en inglés.
So, are you ready?
Yes, I am.
Ok, perfect. So, I would like to start asking you, I know it's tricky, but I would like to start asking you, who is Tatiana, or who you can describe yourself?
Well, I would describe myself as a really extroverted person. I think I'm very outgoing. I have many passions in my life.
I do different stuff, but I think that being with people is one of my biggest passions.
I have my own languages academy. I speak English and French.
So, I love to teach people how to speak English and French.
I have an online academy where I can help people in the country to have a better English level.
So, teaching is one of my biggest passions.
That's why I feel I'm really good with people, with, like, at dealing with them.
And I think that I'm also a really adaptive person.
I think that I can adapt to different scenarios.
That's why I have been working as a medical interpreter, because I like helping people.
I study psychology and international business.
So, I think I have the best of both words.
I am a person that is really sensitive.
But I'm also a person that tries to be really rational with her life, with my emotions, with my career, with my job, my relationship, my family, God.
So, I am a person that has, like, these two passions about helping people through the businesses and through the science.
That's something that motivates me a lot.
So, I would say that I'm extroverted.
I'm adaptable.
And I'm really generous.
I'm a person who likes giving her best.
Well, we usually think about economics, but I really like to give the best of myself to every person I meet.
Okay, awesome.
That's a good description.
Okay.
Now, in terms of hobbies, what do you like to do in your free time?
So, I like to play the guitar.
My boyfriend is a musician, so that's pretty cool, because he's my private tutor.
Okay.
And I like to sing.
I really like the music.
When I was a kid, I used to play piano, but now I'm just with the guitar and singing.
I like to go to the gym.
I really enjoy doing some physical activity.
I work and study remotely, so that's why I find it really important to have these types of hobbies that can make me go out of the routine.
And I would say learning.
It's so nerd, but I like learning about different stuff.
I like doing some courses, for example, on first aid or random things.
I like to do them.
And watching videos and series.
I like YouTube a lot.
And I like Netflix.
I like to see things on Netflix.
Yes.
Okay, perfect.
And now, where do you live and who do you live with?
So, I live in a small town, which is called Kahika.
It's in Cundinamarca.
Yes.
Really near.
I have been there like twice.
It's a very good place.
It's very cold there, no?
Yes, it is.
I went there in December, so I know maybe it was because of month or because it is cold all the time.
I don't know if you tell me.
It's really cold all the time.
Fortunately, I like that type of weather.
I feel really good with it.
And yes, Kahika is a pretty town.
I mean, I like it here because it's so calm.
It's not noisy.
So, I like that.
And yes, it's near Tuchia, Bogotá.
It's kind of getting you out.
Well, I think so.
It's getting you out of this fast life that the city is sending us all the time.
So, yeah, I understand this.
And I live with my mom and my grandma and my dog.
Okay, gotcha.
Now, when you mentioned that you are studying virtually, right?
So, what are you studying?
Okay, so right now I'm going to start the fourth semester in international business.
I started that career two years ago.
Okay.
And I find it pretty cool.
But I wanted to focus that career maybe in other fields.
And as I told you before, I really like being with people.
I like listening to them.
I like teaching them.
So, maybe between my options, I found that starting a psychology career would be really
good because I could have maybe a different bias and that would be great.
So, I took the decision of starting that career next year.
So, I'm going to like have both of them at the same time.
And that's all.
That's all I do.
Okay, gotcha.
So, what's the name of the university that you are studying at?
It's a university that is in Bogotá and it's called Universidad N.
Okay.
So, you're in the first semester.
Are you taking like a lot of classes or it's, well, I know it's virtual, but it's
synchronic or asynchronic, the classes or?
It's kind of weird, but it's like there is one class.
How can I explain?
It's like two classes in one month, like two classes with people.
So, but it's pretty remote.
So, it's like it's your own progress.
You can have communication with teachers through the mail or through the phone, but it's not
like I have classes every day and it's not mandatory to attend to the classes.
What I do is that when I can't attend to the classes, I see the recordings because, of course, you have all of the recordings of the different teachers.
And the university is pretty like cool with that because they understand that people that study virtually is because they have jobs.
So, most of my classmates have jobs and that's why sometimes we don't get the same time to connect, to join the calls.
So, maybe working in a group can be challenging because you never get the times right.
But it's more like remote, I would say that it's more like your own learning, what you do.
Okay.
And yes, you have to be very responsible.
Yeah.
And I have copped with that so far.
Okay.
And how do you feel with that methodology?
Because I know that studying virtually or with that like freedom, it's not for everybody.
Some people prefer to be at the classroom with teachers.
So, how do you feel with that methodology?
Do you feel okay?
I feel good because I have always been really responsible.
I have always been a really independent person.
So, I really appreciate my teachers.
I love to learn about them.
But from my experience, I started working pretty young.
I started working at 18.
I started working as an English teacher in one academy that is called SMART.
And since I started working since a very young age, I think that somehow that habit has to be in my life because I have different projects.
As I told you before, I have my own academy now and I study.
So, maybe studying in person would be a little bit more challenging because I would have to take transport and come.
And I live in Cajica and I want to do other things with my life.
So, I feel pretty comfortable with that methodology.
I like it because the university has really cool content, doing courses all the time, certifications with other universities.
And it's really cool because I feel like I am having my studies without forgetting about my personal and professional projects, which is a really good advantage.
Okay, perfect.
Now, let's talk about a little bit, Tatiana, about your experience as an interpreter.
So, could you please walk me through that?
Yes, of course.
So, I started working as an interpreter after changing my job.
I used to work at SMART.
Then, I started working as a medical interpreter, mainly for two reasons.
The first one is that, at the beginning, I wanted to be a doctor.
So, I really like all of this stuff.
I feel interested about this.
And the second one is because I love being with people and helping them.
And I think it's a really important job.
It's a job that has a lot of responsibility.
Responsibility is a job that is so important.
I mean, I am really empathetic with the patients.
Like, it would be so difficult to be in a country without speaking the language and not knowing how to explain what you're feeling.
I think that that should be really frustrating.
And I think, wow, I really help people every day.
And right now, I'm working as a medical interpreter with Teleperformance.
Okay.
And a company that is called Language Learning Solutions.
That's a free one.
So, it's like, yes.
It's like Teleperformance hire me.
But I work for this company.
Okay.
So, yes.
So, well, let's say that I have been working with them for about six months.
Okay.
And I want to, you know, see other opportunities.
I want to, well, if I am honest with you, I would like to see what differences can happen.
Because I have had not a really good experience, maybe with the salary and the things they promise.
So, it's like I want to explore what other opportunities I have.
And to, like, stay in a company that what they promise they do.
Okay.
Yeah.
That's why I'm just looking for, maybe for a change.
But it's not because I don't like the job or something like that.
No, it's not that.
It's just I want to know about how other companies operate in this type of business.
Okay.
And besides of your experience at Teleperformance, do you have any other experience as an interpreter?
Or this is, like, the only one?
This is the only one.
Like, the six-month experience I told you, this is the only one.
And also your experience as a teacher.
Okay.
Yes, yes.
I'm a certified English teacher.
I also speak French.
Okay.
And I'm a B2.
In English, I'm a C1.
But, yes, that's pretty much what I can tell you.
Tatiana, some interpreters mentioned to me that it's challenging to be working in that position.
Because, especially, like, in the medical part, because you have to share with the patients so difficult information, no good news all the time.
Sometimes we have to share with them that the drill and the process would be complicated, would be, know what they were expecting.
So, and also sometimes the line could be back to back and all the stuff.
So, but I consider that through the experience, we develop, like, different skills or strategies to be able to handle all those situations.
So, in your case, what would be your strategies or your skills?
For dealing with the common challenges and interpreter phases?
Yeah.
Okay.
I think that before thinking as a interpreter, you have to think as a human.
I think that is a job that requires you to have these customer service skills more than in other positions.
Because it's something that, as you're saying, it's very delicate.
It's a moment where you sometimes, like, might feel that you are not doing enough.
Sometimes it's pretty frustrating because you can say, oh, my God, I would have helped this person more if I had more time.
Or maybe sometimes there are some problems with the platform.
So, maybe the calls hang up on their own and you're like, no, you're feeling like if you didn't do your best.
But I think that you have to be the most human possible.
I think that communication is the key.
So, maybe at these situations where the patients are very angry, because I have had them, of course, that they are very frustrated.
You don't have to say, oh, my God, again, this situation, I'm tired.
But, like, understanding the person.
So, this is the interpreter speaking.
May I, I don't know, ask your client for a clarification or your client is using some profanity.
May I intervene here and say, ma'am, I understand your frustration, but I'm doing my best.
I am the interpreter and I want to translate what you're saying so the other person can understand you.
Could you please calm down for a little bit and let me do my job, ma'am?
So, it's always, like, validating the other people's emotions.
And that key has helped me a lot because, of course, there are calls where they have very difficult things like this migration thing or this kind of insurances calls that people are very mad.
And I try to do my best by, like, being empathetic with the patient and communicating everything to the client.
So, like, being really talkative to the client and that's what helps me a lot.
It's, like, not, like, communicating all I have in my mind, but with respect and with professionalism.
Understanding that my job is very important.
But, yeah, for sure.
That's a very good strategy.
Some people are telling me, like, you cannot have feelings in this job.
And I don't agree with that.
No.
It's impossible.
So, and the last question that I have for you, Tatiana, would be, I know that you mentioned that you want to work in a company that it's, like, following all the promises that they made for you, all the stuff.
So, and besides of that, what other aspects would make you stay with Solvo for a long term?
The salary, the work environment, I don't know, maybe the growing opportunities.
What would be that aspect for you?
Well, definitely, I would, I would like to have these growing opportunities.
I find it really important because as I'm studying these careers, I would like to have maybe the opportunity to, I don't know, have other positions.
Maybe helping people, like, training, for example, because I have had that experience before and I love training.
I love being with people.
So, that is something that really motivates me.
And as a teacher, I like to teach about everything.
And I think I'm really good at that.
And, yes, like, the career opportunities I might have because I find it, like, I find that a company is really valuable when they allow their workers to grow inside the company.
And I find it powerful.
I find it really good.
So, from what I know about this company, I really like everything.
I like the schedule.
I really like the salary.
I really like the different things I investigated online.
I really like it.
So, I think I find growing opportunities as an important characteristic.
Sure.
Okay, perfect.
So, now, Tatiana, as a part of the process, we will have, like, a second interview with Operation.
In that interview, it's a little different.
In that interview, they're going to perform for you or they're going to be making, sorry, like, some exercise in terms of interpretations, note-taking, and short-hand memory.
So, I want you to be, like, kind of ready for that exercise because it's a little bit, like, complicated.
So, now, I would like to do a little exercise to know how you go in that aspect, okay?
So, I'm going to be saying some sentences in English and also in Spanish.
So, you're going to be translating to the other language, okay?
I didn't hear you.
Oh, sorry.
I don't know what happened.
I didn't hear what you said.
Could you say it one more time?
Yeah.
I'm going to be saying some sentences in both languages.
So, you're going to be interpreting or translating the sentences to the other language, okay?
Okay, sure.
Okay.
Good morning, Mr. Garcia.
I'm Dr. Thompson.
I understand that you have been experiencing chest pain from the past three days.
Buen día, señor Garcia.
Soy el Dr. Thompson.
Entiendo que ha estado experimentando dolor en el pecho durante los últimos tres días.
Sí, doctor.
Me duele el pecho cuando respiro profundo y cuando camino rápido.
Yes, doctor.
My chest hurts when I take a deep breath and when I walk fast.
Okay.
Do you have history of heart disease or high blood pressure?
Yes.
¿Tiene algún historial de enfermedad del corazón o de presión baja?
Tengo presión alta desde hace cinco años, pero nunca he tenido problemas del corazón.
I've had high blood pressure since five years ago, but I've never had any heart problems.
Perfecto, Tatiana, muchísimas gracias por este pequeño ejercicio.
Ahora, sé que mi compañera Katherine te envió algunos detalles sobre la vacante.
Me gustaría, de igual manera, hablar sobre esos detalles.
Por si tienes alguna pregunta, la podamos abarcar, ¿ok?
Vale.
Bueno, este es un avocante que inicialmente sería como intérprete médico.
¿Por qué digo inicialmente?
Porque en este caso nuestro cliente propio, no sé si conoces sobre ellos o habías escuchado de ellos antes.
Listo.
Nuestro cliente está buscando ampliarse a otras industrias, como la industria legal, financiera, pero en el momento solo estamos en el área médica.
Entonces, por eso digo inicialmente es como intérprete médico.
Es una vacante que tiene modalidad remota, es decir, que estarías trabajando desde la comodidad de tu hogar.
Es una vacante, digamos, con alta exigencia en términos de inglés, en términos también de experiencia, ya que, pues, hacer una interpretación médica debe ser exacta, sin omisiones, sin añadiduras.
Bueno, debe ser muy precisa.
Es una vacante que tiene un horario inicial de lunes a viernes de 8 a 5.
¿Por qué digo inicial?
Porque nuestro cliente también está buscando ampliar operaciones a 24-7.
Es decir, que ustedes como intérpretes puedan tener la flexibilidad de conectarse en la mañana o que ustedes digan, hoy quiero trabajar de noche, hoy quiero trabajar en la tardecita.
Es lo que estamos buscando.
Estamos en ese proceso.
Inicialmente, como te digo, estaríamos en un horario 8 a 5, lunes, viernes.
¿Ok?
Es una vacante que, digamos, tiene una remuneración, como ya la sabes, por parte de mi compañera Katherine, de 2 millones 900.
Adicional a eso, estarías teniendo un auxilio de conectividad de 200 mil.
Adicional a eso, estarías teniendo un bono por performance de 200 mil también.
Sé que esta información ya la tenías, pero me gustaría preguntarte si esto está acorde a tus expectativas, si va de acuerdo también a tus necesidades.
Sí, por supuesto.
Perfecto.
Todo está muy bien.
¿Te puedo hacer una pregunta?
Sí, claro.
Dentro de este horario de 8 a 5 meses, ¿qué es inicialmente?
Porque están buscando expandirse como una flexibilidad horaria.
Digamos, ¿a cuánto tiempo, digamos, podría suceder?
¿Sabes?
El cliente está buscando que sea lo más pronto posible.
Estamos en un proceso de contratación masiva para poder, digamos, abarcar esa operación a 24-7.
Entonces, una vez tengamos como la cantidad de intérpretes necesarios, esperamos que ya sea posible pasar a esa flexibilidad, porque como te digo, el cliente quiere, son una intensidad horaria de 42 horas por semana, y el cliente quiere que ustedes lo puedan manejar conforme a sus espacios.
Que ustedes, por ejemplo, digan, ok, hoy quiero trabajar 5 horas, mañana trabajo 10, me faltan 3 horitas para completar las 42.
Como que uno, digamos, pueda, digamos, organizarse dependiendo.
Exacto.
Incluso él lo ve como, el cliente lo ve desde cierta perspectiva, como para que la persona pueda tener otro trabajo, para que la persona pueda estudiar, hacer algún deporte.
Bueno, eso es lo que estamos buscando.
Ok.
El contrato sería a término indefinido directamente con Solvo.
Estaría teniendo un beneficio que me parece súper chévere, se llama Solvo University.
Es para que tú, algún familiar o amigo, estudie inglés, Excel o Power BI completamente gratis.
Estarías teniendo también descuento en Smart Fit, descuento en ópticas, almacenes, restaurantes.
Ok.
Como te podría indicar, no sé si mi compañera te lo informó, en Solvo manejamos una compensación que se llama compensación flexible.
¿Qué quiere decir esto?
Estarías teniendo tu salario de 2 millones 900 y se estaría organizando 65% prestacional.
Es decir, que sobre ello se calcula o se cotiza pensión, salud, cesantías, etcétera.
Y 35% como auxilio extralegal fijo.
Y uniendo estos dos porcentajes nos dan los 2 millones 900.
¿Está claro o te genera alguna preguntita?
No entendí muy bien.
Te cuento.
En Colombia, sabes que contribuimos para nuestras prestaciones sociales, ¿cierto?
Tanto la empresa como los trabajadores hacen los aportes a esas prestaciones.
Normalmente esto se calcula sobre el 100% del salario y sobre eso se hacen las deducciones y los cálculos.
Pero en Solvo es sobre el 65, ¿ok?
Ok, o sea, ¿sobre el 65% del salario?
Ajá.
Ahora sí quedó un poquito más clara o te confundí más.
Sí, está bien, está bien, gracias.
Ok, con gusto.
Entonces, ¿qué más te puedo contar?
No, básicamente sería eso en cuanto a las generalidades de la vacante.
Ahora, en cuanto al proceso, es un proceso que tiene varios filtros que puede llegar a ser un tanto exceso.
Entonces, te explico.
Este sería el primer filtro, la entrevista conmigo.
Después pasamos a un test de inglés que yo te lo envío a tu correo.
Es un test que dura 15 minuticos, 20 minuticos, súper sencillo.
Después pasamos a entrevista con Ops.
Es la entrevista donde te digo que van a estar haciendo estos ejercicios de memoria a corto plazo, de toma de notas y de interpretación.
Después de pasar a la entrevista, pasamos a un test que se llama Mockle, que es un test virtual de audio y video que dura aproximadamente una hora o dos horas.
Después pasamos al onboarding y al background check y estamos listos para iniciar.
Sé que suena mucho.
Yo, para que, digamos, no sea muy abrumador, lo manejo como un filtro a la vez.
Es decir, listo, completaste este primer paso.
El que sigue es este.
Ya te enviaron este.
Y así para que, digamos, sea ameno y cómodo para ustedes.
¿Ok?
¿Hay alguna pregunta por ello?
No, está bien.
Listo.
Entonces, Tatiana, para continuar y avanzar en el proceso, te voy a escribir por medio de WhatsApp.
Te voy a solicitar tu hoja de vida en inglés con la experiencia de intérprete bien actualizadita, bien resaltada.
Te voy a solicitar también tu cédula en PDF, escaneada bien legible y unos datos personales.
Te mando el test de inglés y esperamos a que nos citen para entrevista con OPS.
¿Ok?
Entonces, ¿el test de inglés lo puedo yo hacer en cualquier momento?
Sí, sin ningún problema.
Me vas avisando si hay alguna pregunta, si por ejemplo necesitas que te reenvíe el link, si necesitas algún apoyo.
Y yo por medio de WhatsApp voy a estar muy atenta.
¿Listo?
En caso de pasar todo ese proceso, obviamente uno entra a la empresa y hay un entrenamiento, ¿no?
En este caso, no.
Súper buena pregunta.
Digamos, el cliente se enfocó en buscar personas con muy buena experiencia, preciso por eso.
Sí, para no tener que entrenar.
Va a haber una capacitación, pero en términos del software, de la plataforma que van a estar usando.
Pero, digamos, capacitación para poder ser intérpretes, no.
¿Ok?
O sea, uno empieza y de una, pues dependiendo de las decisiones que se tomen, pues uno empieza como tal, entra a operaciones.
Exacto.
Algo súper chévere.
Durante el proceso, en la parte que te digo de onboarding, te arroja un certificado como intérprete.
Ah, súper.
Claro.
Allí, pues esa es una parte del onboarding que también es virtual.
Son unos cursitos en cuanto a protocolo y todo de la gestión de las llamas.
Y ahí te arroja un certificado mostrando que estás lista para desempeñarte como intérprete médico.
¿Ok?
Listo, perfecto.
Ay, tenía otra preguntita.
Hola.
Ay, te fuiste.
Ay, hola.
Se te salió.
Estás silenciada.
Hola.
Sí, qué pena.
Me desconectó la llamada.
Ah, entonces, bueno, hasta allá hay alguna pregunta, algo más que desees que aclare.
Sí, los bonos, pues el bono de conectividad y el bono de operaciones que me dijiste que cada uno son de 200.
¿Esos bonos varían según métricas o siempre son iguales?
Entonces, el de, el auxilio de conectividad no varía, está ahí siempre fijo porque como es una vacante remota, el auxilio de transporte lo pasamos a hacer.
Es el de conectividad.
Ajá.
Entonces, ese no tiene ninguna variación.
El de performance, pues hay unos KPIs por alcanzar para poder, digamos, obtenerlo.
Entonces, sí, sería, creo que evalúan tres aspectos.
Entonces, es hecho.
¿Ok?
Ok, los KPIs.
Listo.
Y una última pregunta.
Ajá.
¿El pago se hace de manera quincenal o se hace de manera mensual?
Son pagos quincenales.
Listo.
Perfecto.
No, sí, pues me parece todo muy bueno.
Lo he certificado como intérprete.
De hecho, yo estaba averiguando cómo hacerlo, pero pues tú sabes, trabajando y estudiando uno a veces no tiene tiempo.
Entonces, me parece súper chévere que lo den.
Y me parece muy chévere que tampoco como que, pues digamos, lo que te digo, yo tengo estos seis meses de experiencia
donde he podido aprender mucho y tuve dos meses de una capacitación bastante larga
porque la mayoría de los que entraban, pues la verdad nunca habían tenido, era su primer trabajo.
Entonces, fue un poco tedioso esa parte.
Me gustó mucho porque aprendí demasiado, pero sí, yo sí pienso como, bueno, pues me gustaría ver como
qué opciones hay de pronto para esa parte de entrenamiento.
Igual, pues seguir como con todos los filtros, hacer todo lo que hay que hacer.
Y ya, pues todo me parece súper bien.
Entonces, yo te mando por WhatsApp la hoja de vida, la información y la cédula.
Sí, por favor, en cuanto más rápido me la mandes, más fácil podemos avanzar en el próximo.
Es al mismo WhatsApp que me escribís, que me escribió Catherine.
No, yo ya te escribo desde el mío, ¿ok?
Ah, listo, listo.
Listo, bueno, Tatiana, fue un placer.
Cualquier cosita estamos por contacto por WhatsApp, ¿ok?
Listo, y para agendar la próxima, pues el segundo filtro, pues me avisas ahí.
Sí, yo te escribo, te digo, hay disponibilidad para tal día y ya pues avanzamos.
Listo, dale, muchas gracias, Laura.
Gracias a ti.
Es un gusto conocerte.
Igualmente, igualmente, gracias.
Adiós, que estés bien.
Bye.